# Configuration


## Config files

This project uses Python's built-in [ConfigParser](https://docs.python.org/3/library/configparser.html) format, which is easy for end-users to edit.

The [clean_csv.py][] script will dynamically handle any number of activities in the _activities_ column without any configuration needed. However, the labels for moods should be configured, as below. Also, you may optionally override any paths for CSV and DB files.

View the built-in [app.conf][] config file to see what options can be set. Do not edit this file. It contains the base values.

[clean_csv.py]: https://github.com/MichaelCurrin/daylio-csv-parser/blob/master/dayliopy/clean_csv.py
[app.conf]: https://github.com/MichaelCurrin/daylio-csv-parser/blob/master/dayliopy/etc/app.conf

```bash
$ view dayliopy/etc/app.conf
```

Customize the app by creating an unversioned local config file, which will override any fields in `app.conf` file.

```sh
$ nano dayliopy/etc/app.local.conf
```

Or use the template as a starting point:

```sh
$ cp dayliopy/etc/app.template.conf dayliopy/etc/app.local.conf
```


## Configuring moods

The Daylio app lets you override the labels for moods, which then appears in your export.

If you do that, you need to configure this Dayliopy tool to know _which_ level from 1 to 5 corresponds to that label.

So set the moods in the `[daylio]` section to exactly match the labels in your CSV. You only need to set values in the local config if they differ from the base config.

### Default

Leave the section empty in your config.

```ini
[daylio]
```

### Override one

You could replace mood level 3 from `"meh"` default in Daylio with `"average"`.

```ini
[daylio]
mood3: average
```

### Override all

```ini
[daylio]
mood5: rad
mood4: good
mood3: average
mood2: bad
mood1: yuck
```

### Multiple moods for the same score

If you use _more_ than 5 moods and want to map multiple labels for the _same_ level, you can configure this in the config too.

For example, if you had you had `average` and `meh` both with a score of 3/5 and `sad` and `bad` both get a score of `2`.

```ini
mood5: amazing
mood4: happy
mood3: average,meh
mood2: sad, bad
mood1: horrible
```

Note use of _comma_ to separate values. Whitespace around the comma will be ignored.

NB. Make sure in the Daylio app itself to not use a comma in your label, as that would break this.
